So what is Redux?
Redux is a state management system for a cross-component
or app-wide state.
So it helps us manage state, data that changes
and affects our application
and what we display on the screen.
It helps us manage such data across multiple components
or even the complete app.
Now just to make sure that we're all on the same page
we did of course use state a lot in this course already
with the use state hook or also with use reducer.
And indeed those hooks exist to allow us to manage data
that typically changes for example,
when the user clicks a button and we're changes to that data
then typically lead to the UI being updated.
We use React's State Management Hooks like use state
so that we can tell React that some data changed
and so that it then updates the UI for us.
That's what we did through out this course.
And that is what state is all about.
But we can split the definition of state
into three main kinds of state.
We have a local state and we also have cross-component
and app-wide state.
Now these are not hard definitions
these are just definitions which you will see a lot
or these are separations of state which you see a lot
and therefore I also like to use them.
Now what is a local state?
Local state is state so data which changes that affects DUI
which belongs to a single component.
And for example, if we listen to a user input
and we use useState to store that input
with every keystroke in a state variable.
Or we have a button that toggles some detailed field.
So if we click that button we show the details
if we click it again we hide them.
That would be local state.
And typically we manage such local state
inside of a component with useState
or if it's more complex maybe with useReducer.
Now we also often have state that affects not
just one component but multiple components.
That would be cross component state.
For example, if we have a button that opens
or closes a modal overlay such a modal component
might affect multiple components
and the trigger for opening the modal is per definition
not inside of the modal.
On the apprehend the modal might be closed
by clicking a button which is inside of that modal.
So then we have multiple components working together
to display and hide a modal.
And we can also implement that with useState
or useReducer we then just need to pass props around
so we need to build those prop chains
or do this prop drilling as it's also called
where we pass drops across multiple components
where we also might pass functions as props
across multiple components
so that these different components can work together
and manage state together.
And that's not bad or anything like that
it's just a little bit more complex than local state.
And sometimes we also have State
that does not just affect multiple components
but basically all components of an application.
Now when that happens we could call this app-wide state
and an example here would be user authentication.
If I log in we might need to change the navigation bar
because we now show new options
and we also certainly affect a lot of other components
which now show more or less data.
So that would be an example for app-wide state.
And we can also manage this with the useState, useReducer
and then by passing state values
and updating functions around full props.
That's what we did through out this course
and the data of course works.
Now for cross-component and app-wide state
passing around data and updating function fruit props
can become cumbersome though.
And that's why we did learn about React Context
before in the course.
React Context is a built in feature in React
that makes managing cross-component
or application wide state easier.
So that's one way of simplifying cross-component
and app-wide state management.
Redux solves the same problem.
So both React Context and Redux are there to help us manage
such cross-component or app-wide States.
And that of course brings up an important question.
Why do we need Redux if we already have React Context
for managing state that affects multiple components?